Product update: doc portal mcp server (#460)
bump-sh/docs: src/_product-updates/2026-05-27-portal-api-mcp-server.md

---

> title: Introducing the Portal API and MCP server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Introducing Bump.sh Portal API and MCP server
```

Author: Agree!

tags: [New]
image: /docs/images/changelog/doc-portal-mcp-server.png
---

![doc-portal-mcp-server.png](/docs/images/changelog/portal-api-mcp-server.png)

API documentation is becoming headless. It's no longer just humans browsing docs in a browser: LLMs and agents need to search and access them programmatically too. To support this shift, we're launching two things at once: the Portal API, and an MCP server built on top of it.

## Portal API

The Portal API exposes the same three core capabilities as the portal UI: search, browse, and read. It gives programmatic access to a documentation. 

Three endpoints are available:

- **List**: to explore a documentation structure and have a high-level understanding of the API capabilities.
- **Search**: to find relevant pages by keyword or natural language query, with optional filtering by type (operation, schema, topic, etc.).
- **Fetch**: to retrieve the full content of any page in a clean, token-friendly format.

The Portal API currently works for public docs. No authentication required. Check out the API documentation [on Bump.sh](https://developers.bump.sh/doc/portal).

## MCP server

> The MCP server uses the Portal API under the hood. It lets any LLM or agent search and read docs in a token-efficient way, and in an optimized format. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MCP server uses the Portal API (and [Bump.sh MCP platform](https://bump.sh/mcp) under the hood. It lets any LLM or agent search and read docs in a token-efficient way, including examples you have provided. 
```

Author: Examples you provided je pense pas finalement, c'est induit par le fait qu'il a accès la doc.
